This repository creates a GitHub version for the R bioconductor Package COSNet.
It contains the R package for different platforms, and the source R  and C code.

This software implements the COSNet algorithm (M. Frasca et al. 2013) which has been 
proposed for node label classification on partially labeled graphs, whose labelings
are unbalanced. More precisely, given a weighted graph and a partial node labeling,
the graph classification problem consists in predicting the labels of all the nodes. 
 In several application domains, from gene to social network analysis, the labeling is
unbalanced: for instance positive labels may be much less than negatives.
 COSNet (COst Sensitive neural Network) is a neural
algorithm for predicting node labels in graphs with unbalanced labels, which 
is based on a 2-parameters family of Hopfield networks, and consists
of two main steps: 1) the network parameters are learned through a cost-sensitive
optimization procedure; 2) a suitable Hopfield network restricted to
the unlabeled nodes is considered and simulated. The reached equilibrium
point induces the classification of the unlabeled nodes. The restriction of the
dynamics leads to a significant reduction in time complexity and allows the
algorithm to nicely scale with large networks. An experimental analysis on
real-world unbalanced data, in the context of the genome-wide prediction of
gene functions, shows the effectiveness of the proposed approach.


The R source code is contained in the directory R_code, whereas the C code, implementing 
the more time consuming parts of the algorithm, is contained in the directory C_code.
The remaining directories contain the R package for different platforms:

1)linux_package, contains the version of the package for linux 
2)macOSX10.6_package, contains the version of the package for Mac OS X 10.6 (Snow Leopard)
3)macOSX10.9_package, contains the version of the package for Mac OS X 10.9 (Mavericks)
4)windows_package, contains the version of the package for Windows



References
M. Frasca, A. Bertoni, M. Re, G. Valentini. A neural network algorithm for semi-supervised
node label learning from unbalanced data. Neural Networks  43, pp.84-98, July 2013. 
